So this has been quite
a long, interesting section,
I hope, and hopefully you understand it.
If you need to revise some contents, watch it twice.
Maybe it makes more sense after a week of watching it.
I know VPC was so difficult for me to learn.
It's networking, it's new, lots of new acronyms,
lots of new concepts.
So take your time and don't be afraid
if you didn't understand all of it, just get back to it.
But let's summarize what we learned.
So a CIDR is an IP range.
A VPC is a virtual private cloud,
which is working for IPv4 and IPv6.
Subnets are tied to an AZ in which we define CIDRs,
and we have public and private subnets.
So how do we have a public subnet?
Well, we attach an internet gateway
and then we create a route from the public subnet
to the internet gateway.
And this provides IPv4 and IPv6 internet access if enabled.
Now Route Tables, they would be edited
to have routes to the internet gateway,
the VPC peering connections, the VPC endpoints and so on.
And they're key to make sure that the network flows
within our VPC.
The Bastion Host was a public EC2 instance
that we were able to SSH into
and then this instance had SSH connectivity
to other EC2 instances in private subnets.
That's why it's called a Bastion host.
NAT Instances was an EC2 instance deployed in a private,
in a public subnet to give internet access
to EC2 instances in private subnets.
It is old, it is getting deprecated
and you need to disable the source destination check flag
for it to work and also edit your security group rules.
So we have the NAT Gateway instead, which is much better.
It's managed by AWS, it provides scalable internet access
to private EC2 instances when the target of your request
is an IPv4 address.
So if you want to have the the private DNS
using Route 53, you need to enable DNS resolution
and DNS host name settings in your VPC.
So two settings to enable.
Next, NACLs, so they were network SELs
and they were firewall rules to define inbound
and outbound access at the subnet level.
And don't forget about ephemeral ports in it.
NACLs are stateless, so inbound and outbound rules
are always evaluated, whereas security group rules
are stateful, that means that if the inbound is allowed,
the outbound is automatically allowed and vice versa.
And security group rules are applied
at the EC2 instance level.
VPC Reachability Analyzer was allowing us to perform
some network connectivity testing
between different AWS resources and debug them.
VPC peering was very helpful to connect two VPCs together
and only if they have non-overlapping CIDRs
and VPC peering connections are non-transitive.
So if you need to connect three VPCs together,
you need to have three VPC peering connections.
VPC endpoints are allowing us to get private access
to AWS services such as Amazon S3, DynamoDB,
CloudFormation, SSM, whatever you want within the VPC.
We saw they were gateway endpoints for Amazon S3
and DynamoDB, and all the rest was interface endpoints.
VPC Flow Logs was the rest way for us
to get some log level metadata around all the packets
within our VPC and we had some information around
the accept and the reject traffic.
Now VPC Flow Logs can be created at the VPC subnet
or ENA level, and they can be analyzed and sent to Amazon S3
and then analyzing Athena,
or they can be sent to CloudWatch Logs
and then analyzed using CloudWatch Log Insights for example.
Now to connect your VPC to your data center,
you have two options.
The first one is a site-to-site VPN.
And so to do a site-to-site VPN,
this is a VPN connection over the public internet
in which we have to create a virtual private gateway on AWS
and a customer gateway on your data center.
And then you establish the VPN connection.
And then we saw that if we establish
multiple VPN connections using the same
virtual private gateway, then we could use VPN Cloud Hub
to have a hub and spoke VPN model to connect our sites.
The second way to connect to our data center
was to use Direct Connect.
So this time the connection is completely private.
It does not go over the public internet,
but it's takes time to establish,
you need to hook your own data center
to a Direct Connect location for it to work.
So it's more involved, but it's more secure
and has more stability onto the connection.
Now, Direct Connect Gateway was to set up a Direct Connect
to many VPCs in different AWS regions.
We saw Private Link or VPC endpoint services,
which is to connect privately to services within your VPC
that you have created yourselves to customer VPC.
And the cool thing about it
is that it doesn't require VPC peering
or the public internet or NAT Gateway or Route Tables,
it's only used and mostly used
with a Network Load Balancer and an ENI
and this allows us to expose a service
within our VPC to hundreds or thousands of customer VPCs
without exposing your network.
ClassicLink is to connect EC2 Classic instances
privately to your VPC, but it's going to be deprecated
very soon too.
Transit Gateway is a transitive peering connection
for your VPC, VPN, and Direct Connect,
and it has this fact that everything can flow through it,
which is quite nice.
Traffic mirroring is to copy network traffic
from your ENIs elsewhere for further analysis.
And then we looked at IPv6 in your VC,
we saw how to enable it, and we saw that there was
the existence of the Egress-only internet gateway,
which is just like a NAT gateway,
but for IPv6 traffic out to the internet.
So that's it, it was a very long summary lecture of course,
but hopefully you learned a lot
and hopefully all the things I've said
make sense or ring a bell.
If they don't, watch again this section
and you'll be good to go.
So that's it for me.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.